Update command injection docs (#741)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/cheat-sheets/javascript-command-injection.mdx

---
slug: javascript-command-injection
---

import LinkToRegistryRule from "/src/components/LinkToRegistryRule"
import CommandInjectionIntro from "/src/components/concept/_command-injection-intro.mdx"

# Command injection prevention for JavaScript

<CommandInjectionIntro />

#### Check your project for these conditions:

```bash
semgrep --config p/javascript-command-injection
```

---

## 1. Running an OS command

### 1.A. Spawning a shell with exec function

`exec()` spawns a shell then executes the command within that shell, buffering any generated output. Never pass unsanitized user input to this function. Any input containing shell metacharacters can be used to trigger arbitrary command execution. 

Example:

```javascript
child_process.exec(...)
child_process.execSync(...)
```

#### References

- [`child_process` module documentation](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v14.x/docs/api/child_process.html)

#### Mitigation

> Try to avoid non-literal values for the command string. If it is not possible, then do not let running arbitrary commands, use a white list for inputs. Strip `!@#$;&*~"'{}][-+%^` characters from an input provided for command string. 

Author: ```suggestion
Try to avoid non-literal values for the command string. If it is not possible, then do not let running arbitrary commands, use an allow list for inputs. Strip `!@#$;&*~"'{}][-+%^` characters from an input provided for the command string. 
```

#### Semgrep rule

<LinkToRegistryRule ruleId="javascript.lang.security.detect-child-process.detect-child-process" />

### 1.B. Spawning a process with spawn function

`spawn()` spawns a new process using the given command. Allowing spawning arbitrary programs or running shell processes with arbitrary arguments can result in a command injection vulnerability.

Example:

```javascript
child_process.spawn(...)
child_process.spawnSync(...)
```

#### References

[`child_process` module documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/lang/ProcessBuilder.html)

#### Mitigation

> Try to avoid non-literal values for the command string. If it is not possible, then do not let running arbitrary commands, use a white list for inputs. 

Author: ```suggestion
Try to avoid non-literal values for the command string. If it is not possible, then do not let running arbitrary commands, use an allow list for inputs.
```

---
slug: javascript-command-injection
---

import LinkToRegistryRule from "/src/components/LinkToRegistryRule"
import CommandInjectionIntro from "/src/components/concept/_command-injection-intro.mdx"

# Command injection prevention for JavaScript

<CommandInjectionIntro />

#### Check your project for these conditions:

```bash
semgrep --config p/javascript-command-injection
```

---

## 1. Running an OS command

### 1.A. Spawning a shell with exec function

The `exec()` function executes shell commands. It spawns a shell and then executes the command within the spawned shell, buffering any generated output. Never pass unsanitized user input to this function. Any input containing shell metacharacters can be used to trigger arbitrary command execution. 

Example:

```javascript
const {exec} = require('child_process')

const userInput = "$(dangerous command)" // Value supplied by user input

// Vunerable
exec(`cat *.js ${userInput}`, (error, stdout, stderr) => {
  console.log(stdout)
})
```

#### References

- [`child_process` module documentation](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v14.x/docs/api/child_process.html)

#### Mitigation

> - Always try to use internal JavaScript (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. In other words, use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.

Author: ```suggestion
- Always try to use internal JavaScript API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. In other words, use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.
```

- Don’t pass user-controlled input or use an allowlist for inputs.
- Avoid non-literal values for the command string.
- Avoid running a shell as a command with arguments.

> - TODO __make these specific for each language with an exact specific array__ TODO If it is not possible, use an array with a sequence of program arguments instead of a single string.

Author: @inkz please check (array of arguments which are safe for each language)

> - TODO myself __Use this wording for all other command injections__ TODO Strip everything except alphanumeric characters from an input provided for the command string and arguments.

Author: ```suggestion
- Strip everything except alphanumeric characters from an input provided for the command string and arguments.
```

The `spawn()` and `spawnSync()` functions spawn a new process using the command with a list of arguments. This allows to spawn any programs or running shell processes with arbitrary arguments that can result in a command injection vulnerability.

Example:

```javascript
const {spawn} = require('child_process')

// Not vulnerable
const userInput = '' // value supplied by user input
spawn('cat', ['*.js', userInput])

// Vulnerable
const userInput = 'pwn-command' // value supplied by user input
spawn(userInput, ['-a', '-b'])

// Vulnerable
const userInput = 'echo 1 | cat /etc/passwd' // value supplied by user input
spawn("sh", ["-c", userInput])
```

#### References

[`child_process` module documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/lang/ProcessBuilder.html)

#### Mitigation

- Always try to use internal JavaScript API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. In other words, use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.
- Don’t pass user-controlled input or use an allowlist for inputs.
- Avoid non-literal values for the command string.
- Avoid running a shell as a command with arguments.

> - TODO __make these specific for each language with an exact specific array__ TODO Define a list of allowed arguments.

Author: @inkz please check (array of arguments which are safe for each language)

> - TODO myself __Use this wording for all other command injections__ TODO Strip everything except alphanumeric characters from an input provided for the command string and arguments.

Author: ```suggestion
- Strip everything except alphanumeric characters from an input provided for the command string and arguments.
```

---
slug: javascript-command-injection
---

import LinkToRegistryRule from "/src/components/LinkToRegistryRule"
import CommandInjectionIntro from "/src/components/concept/_command-injection-intro.mdx"

# Command injection prevention for JavaScript

<CommandInjectionIntro />

#### Check your project for these conditions:

```bash
semgrep scan --config p/javascript-command-injection
```

---

## 1. Running an OS command

### 1.A. Spawning a shell with exec function

> The `exec()` function executes shell commands. It spawns a shell and then executes the command within the spawned shell, buffering any generated output. Never pass unsanitized user input to this function. Any input containing shell metacharacters can be used to trigger arbitrary command execution. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `exec()` function executes shell commands. It spawns a shell and then executes the command within the spawned shell, buffering any generated output. Never pass unsanitized user input to this function. Any input containing shell metacharacters can be used to trigger the execution of arbitrary commands.
```

Example:

```javascript
const {exec} = require('child_process')

const userInput = "$(dangerous command)" // Value supplied by user input

// Vunerable
exec(`cat *.js ${userInput}`, (error, stdout, stderr) => {
  console.log(stdout)
})
```

#### References

- [`child_process` module documentation](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v14.x/docs/api/child_process.html)

#### Mitigation

> - Always try to use internal JavaScript API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. In other words, use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Always try to use internal JavaScript APIs (if they exist) instead of running an OS command. In other words, use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be manipulated by a malicious actor.
```

- Don’t pass user-controlled input or use an allowlist for inputs.
- If it is not possible, use an array with a sequence of program arguments instead of a single string.
- Avoid non-literal values for the command string. Strip everything except alphanumeric characters from an input provided for the command string and arguments.

#### Semgrep rule

<LinkToRegistryRule ruleId="javascript.lang.security.detect-child-process.detect-child-process" />

### 1.B. Spawning a process with spawn function

> The `spawn()` and `spawnSync()` functions spawn a new process using the command with a list of arguments. This allows spawning any programs or running shell processes with arbitrary arguments that can result in a command injection vulnerability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `spawn()` and `spawnSync()` functions spawn a new process using the command with a list of arguments. This allows spawning any programs or running shell processes with arbitrary arguments, which can result in a command injection vulnerability.
```

Example:

```javascript
const {spawn} = require('child_process')

// Not vulnerable
const userInput = '' // value supplied by user input
spawn('cat', ['*.js', userInput])

// Vulnerable
const userInput = 'pwn-command' // value supplied by user input
spawn(userInput, ['-a', '-b'])

// Vulnerable
const userInput = 'echo 1 | cat /etc/passwd' // value supplied by user input
spawn("sh", ["-c", userInput])
```

#### References

[`child_process` module documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/lang/ProcessBuilder.html)

#### Mitigation

> - Always try to use internal JavaScript API (if it exists) instead of running an OS command. In other words, use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be exploited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Always try to use internal JavaScript APIs (if they exist) instead of running an OS command. In other words, use internal language features instead of invoking commands that can be manipulated by a malicious actor.
```
